
h1. description

miscellaneous tools for django


h2. existing tools


h3. local sync cache

Keep a local dict in a multi-threaded environment up-to-date.
More info, read DocString in ./local_sync_cache/local_sync_cache.py


h3. limit to usergroups

Limit something with only one field, by selecting:
	* anonymous users
	* staff users
	* superusers
	* ..all existing user groups..
More info, read DocString in ./limit_to_usergroups.py


h3. DOM compare in unittests

The Problem:
You can't easy check if e.g. some form input fields are in the reponse,
because the form rendering use a dict for storing all html attributes.
So, the ordering of form field attributes are not sorted and varied.

The Solution:
You need to parse the response content into a DOM tree and compare nodes.

We add the gread work of Gregor Müllegger at his GSoC 2011 form-rendering branch.
You will have the following assert methods inherit from:
	django_tools.unittest_utils.unittest_base.BaseTestCase
	
* self.assertHTMLEqual() - for compare two HTML DOM trees
* self.assertDOM() - for check if nodes in response or not.
* self.assertContains() - Check if ond node occurs 'count' times in response 

More info and examples in tests/test_dom_asserts.py


h3. upgrade virtualenv

A simple commandline script for call "pip install ---upgrade XY" for every package thats installed in a virtualenv.
Simply copy/symlink it into the root directory of your virtualenv and start it.

To use it, without installing django-tools:

pre. ~/$ cd goto/your_env
.../your_env/$ wget https://github.com/jedie/django-tools/raw/master/django_tools/upgrade_virtualenv.py
.../your_env/$ chmod +x upgrade_virtualenv.py
.../your_env/$ ./upgrade_virtualenv.py
    
This script will be obsolete, if pip has a own upgrade command, see: 
    https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/59


h3. ..all others...

There exist many miscellaneous stuff. Look in the source, luke!


h2. Backwards-incompatible changes


h3. v0.9

Language code field and SelectMediaPath are renamed.

change:
*from django_tools.fields import LanguageCodeFormField*
to:
*from django_tools.fields.language_code import LanguageCodeFormField*

change and rename:
*from django_tools.fields import LanguageCodeField*
to:
*from django_tools.fields.language_code import LanguageCodeModelField*

change and rename:
*from django_tools.widgets import SelectMediaPath*
to:
*from django_tools.fields.media_path import MediaPathWidget*



h2. history

* v0.18.2
** Bugfix: Add missing template in pypi package
* v0.18.0
** NEW: Add DOM compare from Gregor Müllegger GSoC work into unittest utils.
* v0.17.1
** Bugfix in "limit_to_usergroups": Make choices "lazy": Don't access the database in __init__
* v0.17
** Add the script "upgrade_virtualenv.py"
** Add "limit_to_usergroups"
** Add "local sync cache"
** Add models.UpdateInfoBaseModel
** Update decorators.render_to
** render_to pass keyword arguments to render_to_response() (e.g.: mimetype="text/plain")
** new argument "skip_fail" in get_filtered_apps(): If True: raise excaption if app is not importable
* v0.16.4
** Bugfix: """get_db_prep_save() got an unexpected keyword argument 'connection'""" when save a SignSeparatedModelField()
* v0.16.3
** Update BrowserDebug: Use response.templates instead of response.template and make output nicer
* v0.16.2
** Merge stack info code and display better stack info on browser debug page
* v0.16.1
** Update django_tools.utils.messages.StackInfoStorage for django code changes.
* v0.16.0
** NEW: path model field (check if direcotry exist)
* v0.15.0
** NEW: Add a flexible URL field (own validator, model- and form-field)
* v0.14.1
** Bugfix: make path in MediaPathModelField relativ (remove slashes) 
* v0.14
** NEW: django-tagging addon: Display existing tags under a tag field
* v0.13
** Bugfix UnicodeEncodeError in Browser debug
* v0.12
** NEW: django_tools.utils.messages.failsafe_message
* v0.11
** NEW: Store data in a secure cookie, see: utils/client_storage.py
* v0.10.1
** New: Display used templates in unittest BrowserDebug
** Bugfix: catch if last usermessages exist
* v0.10.0
** NEW: utils around django messages, see: /django_tools/utils/messages.py
* v0.9.1
** Bugfix: database column was not created: don't overwrite get_internal_type()
* v0.9
** New: stuff in /django_tools/fields/
** see also backwards-incompatible changes, above!
* v0.8.2
** New: widgets.SelectMediaPath(): Select a sub directory in settings.MEDIA_ROOT
** New: fields.SignSeparatedField()
* v0.8.1
** Add "no_args" keyword argument to installed_apps_utils.get_filtered_apps()
* v0.8.0
** Add model LanguageCode field and form LanguageCode field in Accept-Language header format (RFC 2616) 
* v0.7.0
** Add decorators.py
* v0.6.0
** Add forms_utils.LimitManyToManyFields, crosspost: http://www.djangosnippets.org/snippets/1691/
* v0.5.0
** Add template/filters.py from PyLucid v0.8.x
* v0.4.0
** Add experimental "warn_invalid_template_vars"
* v0.3.1
** Bugfix: Exclude the instance if it was saved in the past.
* v0.3.0
** Add utils.installed_apps_utils
* v0.2.0
** Add models_utils, see: http://www.jensdiemer.de/_command/118/blog/detail/67/ (de)
* v0.1.0
** first version cut out from PyLucid CMS - http://www.pylucid.org



h2. pip upgrade

To do a pip upgrade in a virtual environment, run this:
   
pre. ~$ cd /YourVirtualEnv/bin
~/YourVirtualEnv/bin$ source activate
(YourVirtualEnv)~/YourVirtualEnv/bin$ pip install --upgrade --verbose --editable=git+git://github.com/jedie/django-tools.git#egg=django-tools

The example used git readonly clone url. If you use subversion do this:

pre. (YourVirtualEnv)~/YourVirtualEnv/bin$ pip install --upgrade --verbose --editable=http://svn.github.com/jedie/django-tools.git#egg=django-tools

If you have git write access, use this:

pre. (YourVirtualEnv)~/YourVirtualEnv/bin$ pip install --upgrade --verbose --editable=git+git@github.com:jedie/django-tools.git#egg=django-tools

...or just use our limit_to_usergroups.py script (see above)


h2. fast repo update

To made a fast repository update, you can run this simple shell script:

pre. ~$ cd /path/to/django-tools
/path/to/django-tools$ ./update.sh

the update script runs "git pull origin master" or "svn update".



h2. links

* Homepage: http://code.google.com/p/django-tools/
* Sourcecode: http://github.com/jedie/django-tools